ds-set(1) -- Set variable data, dimensions and attributes in an existing or new dataset.
========================================================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`ds set` *ds_attrs* *input* *output* [*options*]<br>
`ds set` *var* [*type* [*dims* [*data*]]] [*attrs*]... *input* *output* [*options*]<br>
`ds set` `{` *var* [*type* [*dims* [*data*]]] [*attrs*]... `}`... *ds_attrs* *input* *output* [*options*]<br>

## ARGUMENTS

- *var*:
Variable name.
- *type*:
Variable type (`str`), or `none` to keep the original type if *data* is not supplied or autodetect based on *data* if *data* is supplied.
- *dims*:
Variable dimension name (if single), an array of variable dimensions (if multiple), `none` to keep original dimension or autogenerate if a new variable, or `{ }` to autogenerate new dimension names.
- *data*:
Variable data. This can be a [PST](https://github.com/peterkuma/pst)-formatted scalar or an array. `none` values are interpreted as missing values.
- *attrs*:
Variable attributes or dataset attributes if *var* is `none` as *attr*`:` *value* pairs.
- *ds_attrs*:
Dataset attributes as *attr*`:` *value* pairs.
- *input*:
Input file or `none` for a new file to be created.
- *output*:
Output file.
- *options*:
See help for ds for global options. Note that with this command *options* can only be supplied before the command name or at the end of the command line.

## EXAMPLES

Write variables `time` and `temperature` to `dataset.nc`.

    $ ds set { time none time { 1 2 3 } long_name: time units: s } { temperature none time { 16. 18. 21. } long_name: temperature units: celsius } title: "Temperature data" none dataset.nc

Set data of a variable `temperature` to an array of 16.0, 18.0, 21.0 in `dataset.nc` and save the output in `output.nc`.

    $ ds set temperature none none { 16. 18. 21. } dataset.nc output.nc

Set a dimension of a  variable `temperature` to time, data to an array of 16.0, 18.0, 21.0, its attribute `long_name` to "temperature" and `units` to "celsius" in `dataset.nc` and save the output in `output.nc`.

    $ ds set temperature none time { 16. 18. 21. } long_name: temperature units: celsius dataset.nc output.nc

Set multiple variables in `dataset.nc` and save the output in `output.nc`.

    $ ds set { time none time { 1 2 3 } long_name: time units: s } { temperature none time { 16. 18. 21. } long_name: temperature units: celsius } title: "Temperature data" dataset.nc output.nc

Set a dataset attribute `newtitle` to `New title` in `dataset.nc` and save the output in `output.nc`.

    $ ds set newtitle: "New title" dataset.nc output.nc

Set an attribute `newunits` of a variable `temperature` to `K` in `dataset.nc` and save the output in `output.nc`.

    $ ds set temperature newunits: K dataset.nc output.nc

