ds(1) -- Tool for reading, writing and modifying dataset files.
===============================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`ds` [*cmd* [*args*]] [*options*]<br>
`ds --help` [*cmd*]<br>
`ds --version`<br>

## DESCRIPTION

The command line interface is based on the [PST format](https://github.com/peterkuma/pst). In all commands, variable, dimension and attribute names are interpreted as [glob patterns](https://docs.python.org/3/library/fnmatch.html), unless the `-F` option is enabled. Note that the pattern has to be enclosed in quotes in order to prevent the shell from interpreting the glob.

## ARGUMENTS

- *cmd*:
Command to execute or show help for. If omitted, `ds` is a shorthand for the command `ls`, with a difference that files with the same name as any available command cannot be listed. Available commands are listed below.
- *args*:
Command arguments and options.

## OPTIONS

- `-F`:
Interpret variable, dimension and attribute names as fixed strings instead of glob patterns.
- `--help`:
Show this help message or help for a command if *cmd* is supplied.
- `-m`:
Moderate error handling mode. Report a warning on missing variables, dimensions and attributes. Overrides the DS_MODE environment variable.
- `-s`:
Strict error handling mode. Handle missing variables, dimensions and attributes as errors. Overrides the DS_MODE environment variable.
- `-t`:
Soft error handling mode. Ignore missing variables, dimensions and attributes. Overrides the DS_MODE environment variable.
- `-v`:
Be verbose. Print more detailed information and error messages.
- `--version`:
Print the version number and exit.

## AVAILABLE COMMANDS

- `attrs`:
Print attributes in a dataset.
- `cat`:
Print variable data.
- `dims`:
Print dimensions of a dataset or a variable.
- `ls`:
List variables.
- `merge`:
Merge files along a dimension.
- `meta`:
Print dataset metadata.
- `rename`:
Rename variables and attributes.
- `rename_dim`:
Rename a dimension.
- `rm`:
Remove variables or attributes.
- `select`:
Select and subset variables.
- `set`:
Set variable data, dimensions and attributes in an existing or new dataset.
- `stats`:
Print variable statistics.

## SUPPORTED INPUT FORMATS

- DS:
`.ds`
- JSON:
`.json`
- NetCDF4:
`.nc`, `.nc4`, `.nc3`, `.netcdf`, `.hdf`, `.h5`

## SUPPORTED OUTPUT FORMATS

- DS:
`.ds`
- JSON:
`.json`
- NetCDF4:
`.nc`, `.nc4`, `.netcdf`

## ENVIRONMENT

- DS_MODE:
Error handling mode. If "strict", handle missing variables, dimensions and attributes as errors. If "moderate", report a warning. If "soft", ignore missing items.

## AUTHOR

Written by Peter Kuma.

## COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2019-2022 Peter Kuma. This software is distributed under an MIT license.
